SAST <> Bits Code: replace campaigns language with automations (#37423)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/security/code_security/static_analysis/ai_enhanced_sast.md

| [Detection](#detection)                    | Malicious PR protection: Detect potentially malicious changes or suspicious diffs                      | At PR time                               | Flags PRs introducing novel risky code                                        |
| [Detection](#ai-native-sast)               | AI-native SAST: LLM-based taint analysis to detect security vulnerabilities with higher accuracy       | At scan time (Datadog Hosted Scans only) | Identifies contextually complex vulnerabilities missed by rule-based analysis |
| [Validation](#validation-and-triage)       | False positive filtering: Deprioritize low-likelihood findings                                         | After scan                               | Reduce noise, allow focus on actual issues                                    |

> | [Remediation](#remediation)                | Automated remediation: Generate suggested fixes (and optionally PRs) for vulnerabilities manually or with automation | After scan                               | Reduces developer effort, accelerates fix cycle                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Remediation](#remediation)                | Automated remediation: Generate suggested fixes (and optionally PRs) for vulnerabilities manually or automatically | After scan                               | Reduces developer effort, accelerates fix cycle                               |
```

[Bits AI][9] reviews the context of each SAST finding and assesses whether it is more likely to be a true or false positive, along with a short explanation of the reasoning.

> To narrow down your initial list for triage, in [Vulnerabilities][6], enable the **Filter out false positives** toggle. This option uses the `-bitsAssessment:"False Positive"` query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To narrow down your initial list for triage, in [Vulnerabilities][6], turn on the **Filter out false positives** toggle. This option uses the `-bitsAssessment:"False Positive"` query.
```

Each finding includes a section with an explanation of the assessment. You can provide Bits AI with feedback on its assessment using a thumbs up &#128077; or thumbs down &#128078;.
{{< img src="/code_security/static_analysis/false_positive_filtering_sast_side_panel_higher_res_png.png" alt="Visual indicator of a false positive assessment in SAST side panel" style="width:100%;">}}

## Remediation

> Datadog SAST uses [Bits Code][10] to generate code fixes for vulnerabilities. In addition to remediating an individual vulnerability, you can set up an [automation][13] so that Bits Code automatically acts on similar vulnerabilities in the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog SAST uses [Bits Code][10] to generate code fixes for vulnerabilities. You can also create an [automation][13] to automatically generate fixes for vulnerabilities as they are found or on a schedule.
```

To view and remediate vulnerabilities:

1. In Datadog, navigate to [**Security** > **Code Security** > **Vulnerabilities**][6], and select **Static Code (SAST)**.
1. Select a vulnerability to open a side panel with details about the finding and the affected code.
1. In the **Next Steps** > **Remediation** section, click **Fix with Bits**, then one of the following options:

>     - [**Single fix**](#single-fix): Generates a code fix for this vulnerability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [**Single fix**](#single-fix): Generates a code fix for this vulnerability.
```

Author: hey Dom, I typically don't use periods at the end of a list item if it's a sentence fragment (which follows the [Punctuation in lists guideline](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/WRITING/pages/5341511907/Lists#Punctuation-in-lists))

Reviewer: Gah, sorry!! I added a period here since the next bullet was a full sentence that added in a period. A la...

> If any one of the items includes a complete sentence, add end punctuation to all of the items.

But I missed that the next item was nested. Carry on!

Author: haha yes it's easy to miss the tiny indentation! tyy

      - If a fix has already been generated, select **View fix and create PR** to view the existing [remediation session](#remediation-session-details).

>     - [**Create automation**](#create-automation): Opens a pop-up modal where you can create a [Bits Code automation][13]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [**Create automation**](#create-automation): Opens a pop-up modal where you can create a [Bits Code automation][13].
```

Author: same as above

### Single fix

Use **Single fix** to open a Bits Code session to fix this single vulnerability. You can review the proposed diff, ask follow-up questions, edit the patch, and create a pull request to apply the remediation to your source code repository.

> View all Bits Code sessions on **Bits AI** > **Bits Code** > [**Sessions**][7].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View all Bits Code sessions in **Bits AI** > **Bits Code** > [**Sessions**][7].
```

Author: disregarding [per this convo](https://dd.slack.com/archives/GGHR55PNV/p1781276604781559?thread_ts=1781200306.469569&cid=GGHR55PNV)

### Create automation

Use **Create automation** to create a [Bits Code automation][13] to generate fixes for SAST vulnerabilities automatically, either as they are found or on a schedule.

Selecting this option opens an **Automate with Bits** modal with the **Remediate SAST vulnerabilities** action pre-filled. Complete the form, including specifying a trigger and output, then click **Create Automation**. See [Automations][13] to learn more about actions, triggers, and outputs.

> View all Bits Code automations on **Bits AI** > **Bits Code** > [**Automations**][14].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View all Bits Code automations in **Bits AI** > **Bits Code** > [**Automations**][14].
```

Author: disregarding [per this convo](https://dd.slack.com/archives/GGHR55PNV/p1781276604781559?thread_ts=1781200306.469569&cid=GGHR55PNV)

Reviewer: Appreciate you kicking off that thread! Was definitely a "eh, this sounds better to me but go with your gut" suggestion but I didn't make that clear. Will do so moving forward 🫡

### Remediation session details

Each Bits Code session shows the life cycle of an AI-generated fix so you can review and validate changes before merging. It includes:

- The original security finding and proposed code change
- An explanation of how and why Bits Code generated the fix
- CI results (if enabled) to validate the patch is safe to deploy
- Options to refine the fix or **Create PR** to apply the changes to your source code repository

To open the remediation session, select the vulnerability from the [**Vulnerabilities**][6] page to open the side panel, scroll to the **Remediation** section, and select **Expand & Chat**.

> You can also view all remediation sessions on [**Sessions**][7].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also view all remediation sessions in [**Sessions**][7].
```

Author: disregarding [per this convo](https://dd.slack.com/archives/GGHR55PNV/p1781276604781559?thread_ts=1781200306.469569&cid=GGHR55PNV)
